README.md, before:

# 📊 Data Visualization Workshop

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=blue)](https://github.com/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13.1-yellow?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3131/)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9eb774b7945449cdb86029e9093b3c73)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=lightblue)
![Last Updated](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=orange)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen?color=brightgreen)](https://github.com/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/pulls)

A comprehensive guide to data visualization, covering **Matplotlib**, **Seaborn**, and **Plotly**. From basic plotting techniques to advanced customization, this workshop helps you tell effective data stories in data science and analysis.

## 📖 Table of Contents

### 📖 Matplotlib

1. [**Introduction**](./code/matplotlib/01-introduction.ipynb)
1. [**Basic Plotting**](./code/matplotlib/02-basic-plotting.ipynb)
1. [**Styling Plots**](./code/matplotlib/03-styling-plots.ipynb)
1. [**Sub Plots**](./code/matplotlib/04-subplots.ipynb)
1. [**Work with Images**](./code/matplotlib/05-work-with-images.ipynb)
1. [**3D Plotting**](./code/matplotlib/06-3d-plotting.ipynb)

### 📖 Seaborn

1.

### 📖 Plotly

1.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- 👨‍💻 **Programming Fundamentals**
  - Proficiency in **Python** (data types, control structures, functions, classes, etc.).
    - My Python Workshop: [**github.com/mr-pylin/python-workshop**](https://github.com/mr-pylin/python-workshop)
- 🔢 **Basic Knowledge of NumPy**
  - Understanding of NumPy arrays and basic operations.
    - My NumPy Workshop: [**github.com/mr-pylin/numpy-workshop**](https://github.com/mr-pylin/numpy-workshop)

## ⚙️ Setup

This project requires Python **v3.10** or higher. It was developed and tested using Python **v3.13.1**. If you encounter issues running the specified version of dependencies, consider using this version of Python.

### 📝 List of Dependencies

[![ipykernel](https://img.shields.io/badge/ipykernel-6.29.5-ff69b4)](https://pypi.org/project/ipykernel/6.29.5/)
[![ipywidgets](https://img.shields.io/badge/ipywidgets-8.1.5-ff6347)](https://pypi.org/project/ipywidgets/8.1.5/)
[![matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/matplotlib-3.10.0-green)](https://pypi.org/project/matplotlib/3.10.0/)
[![numpy](https://img.shields.io/badge/numpy-2.2.4-orange)](https://pypi.org/project/numpy/2.2.4/)
[![pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-2.2.3-blue)](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/2.2.3/)
[![plotly](https://img.shields.io/badge/plotly-6.0.1-cyan)](https://pypi.org/project/plotly/6.0.1/)
[![seaborn](https://img.shields.io/badge/seaborn-0.13.2-darkblue)](https://pypi.org/project/seaborn/0.13.2/)

### 📦 Installing Dependencies

#### 📦 Method 1: Poetry (**Recommended** ✅)

Use [**Poetry**](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management. It handles dependencies, virtual environments, and locking versions more efficiently than pip.  
To install exact dependency versions specified in [**poetry.lock**](./poetry.lock) for consistent environments **without** installing the current project as a package:

```bash
poetry install --no-root
```

#### 📦 Method 2: Pip

Install all dependencies listed in [**requirements.txt**](./requirements.txt) using [**pip**](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/):

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 🛠️ Usage Instructions

1. Open the root folder with [**VS Code**](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (`Ctrl/Cmd + K` followed by `Ctrl/Cmd + O`).
1. Open `.ipynb` files using the [**Jupyter extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) integrated with **VS Code**.
1. Select the correct Python kernel and virtual environment where the dependencies were installed.
1. Allow **VS Code** to install any recommended dependencies for working with Jupyter Notebooks.

✍️ **Notes**:  

- It is **highly recommended** to stick with the exact dependency versions specified in [**poetry.lock**](./poetry.lock) or [**requirements.txt**](./requirements.txt) rather than using the latest package versions. The repository has been **tested** on these versions to ensure **compatibility** and **stability**.
- This repository is **actively maintained**, and dependencies are **updated regularly** to the latest **stable** versions.
- The **table of contents** embedded in the **notebooks** may not function correctly on **GitHub**.
- For an improved experience, open the notebooks **locally** or view them via [**nbviewer**](https://nbviewer.org/github/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop).

## 🔗 Useful Links

### Matplotlib

- **Matplotlib Website**:
  - The official website for Matplotlib, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Matplotlib library
  - Official site: [matplotlib.org](https://matplotlib.org)
- **Matplotlib Documentation**:
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Matplotlib library
  - Doc: [matplotlib.org/stable/index.html](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html)
- **Matplotlib Source Code**:
  - Over 1000 contributors are currently working on Matplotlib!
  - Link: [github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib)
- **Matplotlib Cheatsheets & Handouts**
  - Cheatsheets [pdf]:
    - [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/cheatsheets.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/cheatsheets.pdf)
  - Handouts [pdf]:
    - beginner: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-beginner.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-beginner.pdf)
    - intermediate: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-intermediate.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-intermediate.pdf)
    - tips: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-tips.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-tips.pdf)

### Seaborn

- **Seaborn Website**:  
  - The official website for Seaborn, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Seaborn library  
  - Official site: [seaborn.pydata.org](https://seaborn.pydata.org)
- **Seaborn Documentation**:  
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Seaborn library  
  - Doc: [seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html)
- **Seaborn Source Code**:  
  - Over 200 contributors are currently working on Seaborn!  
  - Link: [github.com/mwaskom/seaborn](https://github.com/mwaskom/seaborn)

### Plotly

- **Plotly Website**:
  - The official website for Plotly, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Plotly library
  - Official site: [plotly.com](https://plotly.com)
- **Plotly Documentation**:
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Plotly library
  - Doc: [plotly.com/python](https://plotly.com/python)
- **Plotly Source Code**:
  - Over 200 contributors are currently working on Plotly!
  - Link: [github.com/plotly/plotly.py](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py)

## 🔍 Find Me

Any mistakes, suggestions, or contributions? Feel free to reach out to me at:

- 📍[**linktr.ee/mr_pylin**](https://linktr.ee/mr_pylin)

I look forward to connecting with you! 🏃‍♂️

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **[Apache License 2.0](./LICENSE)**.  
You are free to **use**, **modify**, and **distribute** this code, but you **must** include copies of both the [**LICENSE**](./LICENSE) and [**NOTICE**](./NOTICE) files in any distribution of your work.

### ©️ Copyright Information

- **Original Images**:
  - The images located in the [**./assets/images/original/**](./assets/images/original/) folder are licensed under the **[CC BY-ND 4.0](./assets/images/original/LICENSE)**.
  - Note: This license restricts derivative works, meaning you may share these images but cannot modify them.

- The images located in the [**./assets/images/dip_3rd/**](./assets/images/dip_3rd/) folder are licensed under the table below:  

  | Image                                                                                      | Copyright Owner                            | Address                               |
  |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
  | [CH02_Fig0222(b)(cameraman).tif](./assets/images/dip_3rd/CH02_Fig0222(b)(cameraman).tif)    | Massachusetts Institute of Technology      | [MIT.edu](https://MIT.edu)           |
  | [CH06_Fig0638(a)(lenna_RGB).tif](./assets/images/dip_3rd/CH06_Fig0638(a)(lenna_RGB).tif)    | Public domain                              | -                                     |

- **Library-specific Images**:

  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/matplotlib/**](./assets/images/libraries/matplotlib/) folder are sourced from the [**Matplotlib documentation**](https://matplotlib.org/) and are licensed under the [**Matplotlib License**](https://matplotlib.org/stable/users/license.html).
  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/seaborn/**](./assets/images/libraries/seaborn/) folder are sourced from the [**Seaborn documentation**](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and are licensed under the [**BSD 3-Clause License**](https://github.com/mwaskom/seaborn/blob/master/LICENSE).
  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/plotly/**](./assets/images/libraries/plotly/) folder are sourced from the [**Plotly documentation**](https://plotly.com/) and are licensed under the [**MIT License**](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/blob/master/LICENSE).

- **Miscellaneous assets**:

  - The images found in [**./assets/images/misc/**](./assets/images/misc/) are modified versions of the ones listed above.

Commit message:

Replace poetry with uv package manager

README.md, after:

# 📊 Data Visualization Workshop

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=blue)](https://github.com/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13.7-yellow?logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3137/)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9eb774b7945449cdb86029e9093b3c73)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=lightblue)
![Last Updated](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop?color=orange)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen?color=brightgreen)](https://github.com/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop/pulls)

A comprehensive guide to data visualization, covering **Matplotlib**, **Seaborn**, and **Plotly**. From basic plotting techniques to advanced customization, this workshop helps you tell effective data stories in data science and analysis.

## 📖 Table of Contents

### 📖 Matplotlib

1. [**Introduction**](./code/matplotlib/01-introduction.ipynb)
1. [**Basic Plotting**](./code/matplotlib/02-basic-plotting.ipynb)
1. [**Styling Plots**](./code/matplotlib/03-styling-plots.ipynb)
1. [**Sub Plots**](./code/matplotlib/04-subplots.ipynb)
1. [**Work with Images**](./code/matplotlib/05-work-with-images.ipynb)
1. [**3D Plotting**](./code/matplotlib/06-3d-plotting.ipynb)

### 📖 Seaborn

1.

### 📖 Plotly

1.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- 👨‍💻 **Programming Fundamentals**
  - Proficiency in **Python** (data types, control structures, functions, classes, etc.).
    - My Python Workshop: [**github.com/mr-pylin/python-workshop**](https://github.com/mr-pylin/python-workshop)
- 🔢 **Basic Knowledge of NumPy**
  - Understanding of NumPy arrays and basic operations.
    - My NumPy Workshop: [**github.com/mr-pylin/numpy-workshop**](https://github.com/mr-pylin/numpy-workshop)

## ⚙️ Setup

This project requires Python **v3.10** or higher. It was developed and tested using Python **v3.13.7**. If you encounter issues running the specified version of dependencies, consider using this version of Python.

### 📝 List of Dependencies

[![ipykernel](https://img.shields.io/badge/ipykernel-6.30.1-ff69b4)](https://pypi.org/project/ipykernel/6.30.1/)
[![matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/matplotlib-3.10.6-green)](https://pypi.org/project/matplotlib/3.10.6/)
[![numpy](https://img.shields.io/badge/numpy-2.3.3-orange)](https://pypi.org/project/numpy/2.3.3/)
[![pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-2.3.3-blue)](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/2.3.3/)
[![plotly](https://img.shields.io/badge/plotly-6.3.1-cyan)](https://pypi.org/project/plotly/6.3.1/)
[![seaborn](https://img.shields.io/badge/seaborn-0.13.2-darkblue)](https://pypi.org/project/seaborn/0.13.2/)
<!-- [![ipywidgets](https://img.shields.io/badge/ipywidgets-8.1.5-ff6347)](https://pypi.org/project/ipywidgets/8.1.5/) -->

### 📦 Installing Dependencies

#### 📦 Method 1: uv (**Recommended** ✅)

- Use [**uv**](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for dependency management. It handles dependencies, virtual environments, and locking versions more efficiently than pip.  
- To install exact dependency versions specified in [**uv.lock**](./uv.lock) for consistent environments **without** installing the current project as a package:

  ```bash
  uv sync --no-install-project
  ```

#### 📦 Method 2: Pip

- Install all dependencies listed in [**requirements.txt**](./requirements.txt) using [**pip**](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/):

  ```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

### 🛠️ Usage Instructions

1. Open the root folder with [**VS Code**](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (`Ctrl/Cmd + K` followed by `Ctrl/Cmd + O`).
1. Open `.ipynb` files using the [**Jupyter extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) integrated with **VS Code**.
1. Select the correct Python kernel and virtual environment where the dependencies were installed.
1. Allow **VS Code** to install any recommended dependencies for working with Jupyter Notebooks.

✍️ **Notes**:  

- It is **highly recommended** to stick with the exact dependency versions specified in [**uv.lock**](./uv.lock) or [**requirements.txt**](./requirements.txt) rather than using the latest package versions. The repository has been **tested** on these versions to ensure **compatibility** and **stability**.
- This repository is **actively maintained**, and dependencies are **updated regularly** to the latest **stable** versions.
- The **table of contents** embedded in the **notebooks** may not function correctly on **GitHub**.
- For an improved experience, open the notebooks **locally** or view them via [**nbviewer**](https://nbviewer.org/github/mr-pylin/data-visualization-workshop).

## 🔗 Useful Links

### Matplotlib

- **Matplotlib Website**:
  - The official website for Matplotlib, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Matplotlib library
  - Official site: [matplotlib.org](https://matplotlib.org)
- **Matplotlib Documentation**:
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Matplotlib library
  - Doc: [matplotlib.org/stable/index.html](https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html)
- **Matplotlib Source Code**:
  - Over 1000 contributors are currently working on Matplotlib!
  - Link: [github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib)
- **Matplotlib Cheatsheets & Handouts**
  - Cheatsheets [pdf]:
    - [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/cheatsheets.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/cheatsheets.pdf)
  - Handouts [pdf]:
    - beginner: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-beginner.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-beginner.pdf)
    - intermediate: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-intermediate.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-intermediate.pdf)
    - tips: [matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-tips.pdf](https://matplotlib.org/cheatsheets/handout-tips.pdf)

### Seaborn

- **Seaborn Website**:  
  - The official website for Seaborn, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Seaborn library  
  - Official site: [seaborn.pydata.org](https://seaborn.pydata.org)
- **Seaborn Documentation**:  
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Seaborn library  
  - Doc: [seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial.html)
- **Seaborn Source Code**:  
  - Over 200 contributors are currently working on Seaborn!  
  - Link: [github.com/mwaskom/seaborn](https://github.com/mwaskom/seaborn)

### Plotly

- **Plotly Website**:
  - The official website for Plotly, providing information, tutorials, and resources for the Plotly library
  - Official site: [plotly.com](https://plotly.com)
- **Plotly Documentation**:
  - Comprehensive guide and reference for all functionalities and features of the Plotly library
  - Doc: [plotly.com/python](https://plotly.com/python)
- **Plotly Source Code**:
  - Over 200 contributors are currently working on Plotly!
  - Link: [github.com/plotly/plotly.py](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py)

## 🔍 Find Me

Any mistakes, suggestions, or contributions? Feel free to reach out to me at:

- 📍[**linktr.ee/mr_pylin**](https://linktr.ee/mr_pylin)

I look forward to connecting with you! 🏃‍♂️

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **[Apache License 2.0](./LICENSE)**.  
You are free to **use**, **modify**, and **distribute** this code, but you **must** include copies of both the [**LICENSE**](./LICENSE) and [**NOTICE**](./NOTICE) files in any distribution of your work.

### ©️ Copyright Information

- **Original Images**:
  - The images located in the [**./assets/images/original/**](./assets/images/original/) folder are licensed under the **[CC BY-ND 4.0](./assets/images/original/LICENSE)**.
  - Note: This license restricts derivative works, meaning you may share these images but cannot modify them.

- The images located in the [**./assets/images/dip_3rd/**](./assets/images/dip_3rd/) folder are licensed under the table below:  

  | Image                                                                                      | Copyright Owner                            | Address                               |
  |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
  | [CH02_Fig0222(b)(cameraman).tif](./assets/images/dip_3rd/CH02_Fig0222(b)(cameraman).tif)    | Massachusetts Institute of Technology      | [MIT.edu](https://MIT.edu)           |
  | [CH06_Fig0638(a)(lenna_RGB).tif](./assets/images/dip_3rd/CH06_Fig0638(a)(lenna_RGB).tif)    | Public domain                              | -                                     |

- **Library-specific Images**:

  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/matplotlib/**](./assets/images/libraries/matplotlib/) folder are sourced from the [**Matplotlib documentation**](https://matplotlib.org/) and are licensed under the [**Matplotlib License**](https://matplotlib.org/stable/users/license.html).
  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/seaborn/**](./assets/images/libraries/seaborn/) folder are sourced from the [**Seaborn documentation**](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) and are licensed under the [**BSD 3-Clause License**](https://github.com/mwaskom/seaborn/blob/master/LICENSE).
  - The images located in the [**assets/images/libraries/plotly/**](./assets/images/libraries/plotly/) folder are sourced from the [**Plotly documentation**](https://plotly.com/) and are licensed under the [**MIT License**](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.py/blob/master/LICENSE).

- **Miscellaneous assets**:

  - The images found in [**./assets/images/misc/**](./assets/images/misc/) are modified versions of the ones listed above.
